=head1 Instant database admin tool with RapidApp and rdbic.pl

=head1 Overview

The new utility script L<rdbic.pl> from the L<RapidApp> distribution provides 
instant CRUD access to databases via built-in web server. 

=head1 Introduction

L<RapidApp> is a relatively new extension to L<Catalyst> for quickly creating
rich and interactive user-interfaces, primarily using ExtJS, with a focus on 
database-driven applications. L<RapidApp> also provides its own suite of helpers
to bootstrap new applications which work out-of-the-box.

To showcase some of these capabilities, L<RapidApp> also now ships with the 
utility script L<rdbic.pl> which wraps the RapidDbic helper trait to generate
and run a fully-working CRUD application on-the-fly with a single command and
single L<DBI> connect info (dsn) argument. 

=head1 Installation

To have the L<rdbic.pl> script available on your system, simply install 
L<RapidApp> from CPAN:

  cpanm RapidApp

=head1 Examples

The temporary application which the L<rdbic.pl> script generates includes a
full DBIC model loaded with L<DBIx::Class::Schema::Loader>, so all that need
be supplied is the DBI connect arguments for the database, such as:

  rdbic.pl dbi:mysql:dbname,dbuser,dbpass

The DSN argument is a hybrid connect info with the username and password (if
required) appended with commas as shown above (note there are no spaces after 
the commas).

Connections which do not require a user/pass, such as SQLite, can be specified
simply as:

  rdbic.pl dbi:SQLite:/path/to/sqlt_file.db

As an extra convenience, when connecting to an SQLite database, the argument can
be supplied as a simple file-system the path to the database file:

  rdbic.pl /path/to/sqlt_file.db

Once the temporary application is generated it is immediately started using the 
standard L<Catalyst> test server and can be accessed via:

  http://localhost:3500

=head1 Options

The only required argument is the dbi connect string, but other options are also 
available, such as changing the port and altering the high-level CRUD behavior.

To view the list of options simply call the script with no options or with the
C<--help> option:

  rdbic.pl --help


=head1 Summary

The L<rdbic.pl> script provides an easy introduction to L<RapidApp> and taste
of the kinds of interfaces which RapidApp facilitates, but is also a useful
and convenient utility on its own.

In the next article we will look at L<Plack::App::RapidApp::rDbic> which is
the module used internally by L<rdbic.pl> and can be used and mounted 
independently within a Plack-based setup. 

=head1 Author

Henry Van Styn L<vanstyn@cpan.org|email:vanstyn@cpan.org>

=cut
